# iceweb_php
Rebirth of the IceWeb/TreMoR PHP interface for rapid browsing of 10-minute spectrograms. Not to be confused with iceweb_matlab which is the MATLAB run-time code-base used to generate the 10-minute spectrogram image files. iceweb_matlab generates the images, iceweb_php allows rapid browsing of the images produced by iceweb_matlab.

IceWeb was a project conceived by Glenn Thompson and Steve McNutt at the Alaska Volcano Observatory in 1998 as a set of web-based extensions to the Iceworm seismic data acquisition & analysis system - a combination of Earthworm and Antelope - built by Kent Lindquist in the late 1990s. The idea was to detect escalating volcanic tremor in near-real-time, send alarms to the Duty Seismologist, and provide a rich-set of web-based data visualization plots which would enable the Duty Seismologist to make a rapid assessment of volcano-seismic data without the need to drive into the observatory. To negate false alarms due to a station going bad, the alarm system itself was entirely web-configurable. The plots generated were 10-minute spectrograms, 2-hour mosaics of these spectrograms, day-spectrograms, helicorder plots and reduced displacement plots. The alarm system monitoring reduced displacement data calculated every 10 minutes.

IceWeb built on an effort in 1996 by John Benoit and Kent Lindquist to generate web-based spectrograms during the 1996 eruption of Pavlof volcano. This was a combination of MATLAB (to load data and generate image files) and Perl-CGI codes (web pages to browse the image files). These web-based spectrograms were a breakthrough in real-time volcano monitoring. The 1996 codes were hard-wired for Pavlof, but IceWeb began by parameterizing all of the hard wired volcano and station settings into an external parameter file, and then timing each section of code to identify bottlenecks and optimize for execution time. By June 1998, IceWeb was running for 14 volcanoes in Alaska.

IceWeb development continued until December 1999 but then stalled for many years as author Glenn Thompson departed to work at other volcano and seismological observatories. However, IceWeb continued to be a core monitoring tool at AVO and upon returning to AVO in November 1998, Thompson's first project was to modernize IceWeb. The two key steps were (1) to rebase IceWeb on top of GISMO, which now did a lot of the heavy lifting IceWeb previously needed to do to load and manage the seismic waveform data, and (2) replace the Perl-CGI web scripts with a fresh PhP interface to aid navigation of the 10-minute spectrogram images. 

It is now Sep 2015, almost 7 years since IceWeb 2.0 (aka "TReMoR"). GISMO continues to evolve and so it is time to rebase iceweb_matlab on the latest version of GISMO. Meanwhile, it is time to rebuild the other components - the tremor alarm system, reduced displacement plots, helicorders, sound files etc., and build on these. It is also time to rebuild iceweb_php, to remove the Antelope dependency and to allow for other ways of browsing spectrograms and other image files. For example, browsing 3 spectrograms at once, and exploring archived unrest data.
